Content matplotlib (#1691)
Codecademy/docs: content/matplotlib/concepts/pyplot/terms/subplots/subplots.md

---
Title: '.subplots()'
Description: It create a figure and a set of subplots. This function makes it easy to generate layouts of subplots, including the enclosing figure object.
Subjects:
  -  'Data Science'
  -  'Data Visualization'
  -  'Data Analytics'
Tags:
  -  'Graphs'
  -  'Libraries'
  -  'Matplotlib'
CatalogContent:
  -  'learn-python-3'
  -  'visualize-data-with-python'
  -  'machine-learning'
---

The **'pyplot.subplots()'** function returns:

- fig: _Figure_

- ax: _ax_ can be either a signe Axes object, or an array of Axes objects if more than one subplot was created. The dimensions of the resulting array can be controlled with the squeeze keyword.

## Syntax
```pseudo
pyplot.subplots(nrows, ncols)
```

> The following parameters can be used:

Reviewer: This table must be completely reworked. It appears that much of this is the language used in the Matplotlib documentation. Docs is all original content, we do not permit any plagiarism. Contributors flagged twice for plagiarism will not be allowed to submit entries. All the language below must be rephrased in your own words. In Docs generally, we strive to keep the explanations and relevant information as concise as possible. Please review other examples in docs if you need further guidance.

Author: @caupolicandiaz Yes I finished all the changes you asked me to make.

| `**fig_kw`       |                                                            | All additional keyword arguments are passed to the pyplot.figure call.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

## Example
In the following example, basic 2 x 2 grid of Axes is formed using **subplots**.

It returs a **Figure** instance and an array of **Axes** objects.

```py
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

fig, axs = plt.subplots(ncols=2, nrows=2, figsize=(5.5, 3.5),
                        layout="constrained")
# add an artist, in this case a nice label in the middle...
for row in range(2):
    for col in range(2):
        axs[row, col].annotate(f'axs[{row}, {col}]', (0.5, 0.5),
                               transform=axs[row, col].transAxes,
                               ha='center', va='center', fontsize=18,
                               color='darkgrey')
fig.suptitle('plt.subplots()')
```

> ![Output of the matplotlib.pyplot.subplots() function](https://matplotlib.org/stable/_images/sphx_glr_arranging_axes_001.png)

Reviewer: This example should not reproduce an figure on another site, all the elements of an entry should be original content. Update the code and add the relevant image to our docs media folder. See the "file hosting" section of our contribution guide - https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md

---
Title: '.subplots()'

> Description: Adds a given number of subplots to a matplotlib figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Adds a given number of subplots to a matplotlib figure.'
```

Subjects:
  -  'Data Science'
  -  'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  -  'Graphs'
  -  'Libraries'
  -  'Matplotlib'
CatalogContent:
  -  'learn-python-3'
  -  'visualize-data-with-python'
---

The **`.subplots()`** method returns a figure with multiple subplots. This method is an efficient way to create popular subplot layouts with a high-level and concise syntax.

> ## Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

```

Reviewer: there should always be a single space after a header

```pseudo
pyplot.subplots(nrows, ncols)
```

> `subplots()` has the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.subplots()` has the following parameters:

```

Reviewer: there should also be a line following this intro

> |  Parameter Name  | Data Type(s)                                                        | Usage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  Parameter Name  | Data Type(s)                                                        | Usage
```

| `**fig_kw`       |                                                                     | Any other keyword arguments are passed to the `pyplot.figure` method.                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Example
The following example returns a 1 x 2 grid of Axes with a pair of sinusoidal plots.

```py
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Create some sample data
x = np.linspace(0, 10, 100)
y1 = np.sin(x)
y2 = np.cos(x)

# Create a figure with two subplots, arranged vertically
fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 1, figsize=(8, 6), layout="constrained")

# Plot the first subplot (top)
axs[0].plot(x, y1)
axs[0].set_title('Sine Plot')
axs[0].set_xlabel('x-axis')
axs[0].set_ylabel('y-axis')

# Plot the second subplot (bottom)
axs[1].plot(x, y2)
axs[1].set_title('Cosine Plot')
axs[1].set_xlabel('x-axis')
axs[1].set_ylabel('y-axis')

# Display the figure
plt.show()
```

The output is shown below:

> ![Output of the matplotlib.pyplot.subplots() function](/media/subplots-example.png)

Reviewer: please add a new plot that does not include the title "plt.subplots"

Author: @caupolicandiaz there is no "plt.subplots" title, right?

```

The following parameters can be used:
|  Parameter Name  | Data Type(s)                                               | Usage:
| :--------------: |  :---------------                                          | ----------------------------------------------------------------------
| `nrows, ncols`   | int, default:1                                             | This refers to the quantity of rows or columns within the grid of subplots.                                                                                                                                           |
| `sharex, sharey` | bool or {'none', 'all', 'row', 'col'}, default:False       | Sharex and sharey control the sharing of properties among x or y axis of subplots. Shared x-axis or y-axis allows for creating tick labels only on the bottom subplot or first column subplot, respectively.          |
| `squeeze`        | bool, default: True                                        | Removes additional dimensions from the array of Axes when set to True. If set to False, it will always return a 2D array of Axes instances, even if the size is 1x1.                                                  | 

> | `width_ratios`   | array-like of length ncols, optional                       | Defines the proportional width of columns, where each column has a width of width_ratios[i] / sum(width_ratios). If not given, all columns have equal width. It is equivalent to gridspec_kw={'width_ratios': [...]}. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `width_ratios`   | array-like input of length ncols                    | Defines the proportional width of columns, each column width is given by width_ratios[i] / sum(width_ratios). By default all columns have equal width. 
```
```

> |    `squeeze`     | bool                                                                | Removes additional dimensions from the array of Axes when set to `True` (default). If set to `False`, it will always return a 2D array of Axes instances.                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|    `squeeze`     | bool                                                                | Removes additional dimensions from the array of `Axes` when set to `True` (default). If set to `False`, it will always return a 2D array of `Axes` instances.                                                                            |
```

> | `height_ratios`  | array-like of lenght nrows                                 | Sets the proportional height of rows, dividing the total height among them. If not provided, all rows have an equal height. It is a shortcut for gridspec_kw={'height_ratios': [...]}.                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `height_ratios`  | array-like input of length nrows                                 | Sets the proportional height of rows, dividing the total height among them. If not provided, all rows have an equal height.                             |
```

> | `subplot_kw`     | dict                                                       | Dictionary that includes keywords that are passed to the add_subplot method, which is used to generate each subplot.                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `subplot_kw`     | dict                                                       | Dictionary that includes keywords that are passed to the `add_subplot` method, which is used to generate each subplot.                                                                                                  |
```

> | `gridspec_kw`    | dict                                                       | Dictionary that contains keywords passed to the GridSpec constructor used for creating the grid where subplots are positioned.                                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `gridspec_kw`    | dict                                                       | Dictionary that contains keywords passed to the `GridSpec` constructor for creating the grid where subplots are positioned.                                                                                        |
```

> | `**fig_kw`       |                                                            | Any other keyword arguments are passed to the pyplot.figure method.                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `**fig_kw`       |                                                            | Any other keyword arguments are passed to the `pyplot.figure` method.                                                                                                                                                   |
```

## Example

> In the following example, It returns 1 x 2 grid of Axes with the following sinusoidal and cosine plots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example returns a 1 x 2 grid of Axes with a pair of sinusoidal plots.
```

Reviewer: sinusoidal can refer to both wave functions

```py
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Create some sample data
x = np.linspace(0, 10, 100)
y1 = np.sin(x)
y2 = np.cos(x)

# Create a figure with two subplots, arranged vertically
fig, axs = plt.subplots(2, 1, figsize=(8, 6), layout="constrained")

# Plot the first subplot (top)
axs[0].plot(x, y1)

> axs[0].set_title('Sinusoidal Plot')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
axs[0].set_title('Sine Plot')
```

axs[0].set_xlabel('x-axis')
axs[0].set_ylabel('y-axis')

# Plot the second subplot (bottom)
axs[1].plot(x, y2)
axs[1].set_title('Cosine Plot')
axs[1].set_xlabel('x-axis')
axs[1].set_ylabel('y-axis')

# Display the figure

> fig.suptitle("plt.subplots()")

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: I don't think this title is adding any value to this graphic

plt.show()
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The output is shown below:
```

> ![Output of the matplotlib.pyplot.subplots() function](/media/subplots-example.png)

Reviewer: update the plot based on the comments above
